## 0.9.7 (January 08, 2019)
* Bug Fixes
    * Fixed bug when user chooses a zero or negative index when calling ``Cmd.select()``
    * Restored behavior where ``cmd_echo`` always starts as False in a py script. This was broken in 0.9.5.
* Enhancements
    * **cmdloop** now only attempts to register a custom signal handler for SIGINT if running in the main thread
    * commands run as a result of ``default_to_shell`` being **True** now run via ``do_shell()`` and are saved
    to history.
    * Added more tab completion to pyscript command.
* Deletions (potentially breaking changes)
    * Deleted ``Cmd.colorize()`` and ``Cmd._colorcodes`` which were deprecated in 0.9.5
    * Replaced ``dir_exe_only`` and  ``dir_only`` flags in ``path_complete`` with optional ``path_filter`` function
    that is used to filter paths out of completion results. 
    * ``perror()`` no longer prepends "ERROR: " to the error message being printed
    
## 0.9.6 (October 13, 2018)
* Bug Fixes
    * Fixed bug introduced in 0.9.5 caused by backing up and restoring `self.prompt` in `pseudo_raw_input`.
      As part of this fix, continuation prompts will not be redrawn with `async_update_prompt` or `async_alert`.
* Enhancements
    * All platforms now depend on [wcwidth](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/wcwidth) to assist with asynchronous alerts.
    * Macros now accept extra arguments when called. These will be tacked onto the resolved command.
    * All cmd2 commands run via `py` now go through `onecmd_plus_hooks`.

## 0.9.5 (October 11, 2018)
* Bug Fixes
    * Fixed bug where ``get_all_commands`` could return non-callable attributes
    * Fixed bug where **alias** command was dropping quotes around arguments
    * Fixed bug where running help on argparse commands didn't work if they didn't support -h
    * Fixed transcript testing bug where last command in transcript has no expected output
    * Fixed bugs with how AutoCompleter and ArgparseFunctor handle argparse
    arguments with nargs=argparse.REMAINDER. Tab completion now correctly
    matches how argparse will parse the values. Command strings generated by
    ArgparseFunctor should now be compliant with how argparse expects
    REMAINDER arguments to be ordered.
    * Fixed bugs with how AutoCompleter handles flag prefixes. It is no
    longer hard-coded to use '-' and will check against the prefix_chars in
    the argparse object. Also, single-character tokens that happen to be a
    prefix char are not treated as flags by argparse and AutoCompleter now
    matches that behavior.
    * Fixed bug where AutoCompleter was not distinguishing between a negative number and a flag 
    * Fixed bug where AutoCompleter did not handle -- the same way argparse does (all args after -- are non-options)  
* Enhancements
    * Added ``exit_code`` attribute of ``cmd2.Cmd`` class
        * Enables applications to return a non-zero exit code when exiting from ``cmdloop``
    * ``ACHelpFormatter`` now inherits from ``argparse.RawTextHelpFormatter`` to make it easier
    for formatting help/description text
    * Aliases are now sorted alphabetically
    * The **set** command now tab-completes settable parameter names
    * Added ``async_alert``, ``async_update_prompt``, and ``set_window_title`` functions
        * These allow you to provide feedback to the user in an asychronous fashion, meaning alerts can
        display when the user is still entering text at the prompt. See [async_printing.py](https://github.com/python-cmd2/cmd2/blob/master/examples/async_printing.py)
        for an example.
    * Cross-platform colored output support 
        * ``colorama`` gets initialized properly in ``Cmd.__init()``
        * The ``Cmd.colors`` setting is no longer platform dependent and now has three values:
            * Terminal (default) - output methods do not strip any ANSI escape sequences when output is a terminal, but 
            if the output is a pipe or a file the escape sequences are stripped
            * Always - output methods **never** strip ANSI escape sequences, regardless of the output destination
            * Never - output methods strip all ANSI escape sequences
    * Added ``macro`` command to create macros, which are similar to aliases, but can take arguments when called
    * All cmd2 command functions have been converted to use argparse.
    * Renamed argparse_example.py to decorator_example.py to help clarify its intent
* Deprecations
    * Deprecated the built-in ``cmd2`` support for colors including ``Cmd.colorize()`` and ``Cmd._colorcodes``
* Deletions (potentially breaking changes)
    * The ``preparse``, ``postparsing_precmd``, and ``postparsing_postcmd`` methods *deprecated* in the previous release 
    have been deleted
        * The new application lifecycle hook system allows for registration of callbacks to be called at various points
        in the lifecycle and is more powerful and flexible than the previous system
    * ``alias`` is now a command with sub-commands to create, list, and delete aliases. Therefore its syntax
      has changed. All current alias commands in startup scripts or transcripts will break with this release.
    * `unalias` was deleted since ``alias delete`` replaced it
    
## 0.9.4 (August 21, 2018)
* Bug Fixes
    * Fixed bug where ``preparse`` was not getting called
    * Fixed bug in parsing of multiline commands where matching quote is on another line 
* Enhancements
    * Improved implementation of lifecycle hooks to support a plugin
      framework, see ``docs/hooks.rst`` for details.
    * New dependency on ``attrs`` third party module
    * Added ``matches_sorted`` member to support custom sorting of tab-completion matches
    * Added [tab_autocomp_dynamic.py](https://github.com/python-cmd2/cmd2/blob/master/examples/tab_autocomp_dynamic.py) example
        * Demonstrates updating the argparse object during init instead of during class construction
* Deprecations
    * Deprecated the following hook methods, see ``hooks.rst`` for full details:
       * ``cmd2.Cmd.preparse()`` - equivalent functionality available
         via ``cmd2.Cmd.register_postparsing_hook()``
       * ``cmd2.Cmd.postparsing_precmd()`` - equivalent functionality available
         via ``cmd2.Cmd.register_postparsing_hook()``
       * ``cmd2.Cmd.postparsing_postcmd()`` - equivalent functionality available
         via ``cmd2.Cmd.register_postcmd_hook()``

## 0.8.9 (August 20, 2018)
* Bug Fixes
    * Fixed extra slash that could print when tab completing users on Windows

## 0.9.3 (July 12, 2018)
* Bug Fixes
    * Fixed bug when StatementParser ``__init__()`` was called with ``terminators`` equal to ``None``
    * Fixed bug when ``Cmd.onecmd()`` was called with a raw ``str``
* Enhancements
    * Added ``--clear`` flag to ``history`` command that clears both the command and readline history.
* Deletions
    * The ``CmdResult`` helper class which was *deprecated* in the previous release has now been deleted
        * It has been replaced by the improved ``CommandResult`` class

## 0.9.2 (June 28, 2018)
* Bug Fixes
    * Fixed issue where piping and redirecting did not work correctly with paths that had spaces
* Enhancements
    * Added ability to print a header above tab-completion suggestions using `completion_header` member
    * Added ``pager`` and ``pager_chop`` attributes to the ``cmd2.Cmd`` class
        * ``pager`` defaults to **less -RXF** on POSIX and **more** on Windows
        * ``pager_chop`` defaults to **less -SRXF** on POSIX and **more** on Windows
    * Added ``chop`` argument to ``cmd2.Cmd.ppaged()`` method for displaying output using a pager
        * If ``chop`` is ``False``, then ``self.pager`` is used as the pager
        * Otherwise ``self.pager_chop`` is used as the pager
    * Greatly improved the [table_display.py](https://github.com/python-cmd2/cmd2/blob/master/examples/table_display.py) example
        * Now uses the new [tableformatter](https://github.com/python-tableformatter/tableformatter) module which looks better than ``tabulate``
* Deprecations
    * The ``CmdResult`` helper class is *deprecated* and replaced by the improved ``CommandResult`` class
        * ``CommandResult`` has the following attributes: **stdout**, **stderr**, and **data**
            * ``CmdResult`` had attributes of: **out**, **err**, **war**
        * ``CmdResult`` will be deleted in the next release

## 0.8.8 (June 28, 2018)
* Bug Fixes
    * Prevent crashes that could occur attempting to open a file in non-existent directory or with very long filename
* Enhancements
    * `display_matches` is no longer restricted to delimited strings

## 0.9.1 (May 28, 2018)
* Bug Fixes
    * fix packaging error for 0.8.x versions (yes we had to deploy a new version
      of the 0.9.x series to fix a packaging error with the 0.8.x version)

## 0.9.0 (May 28, 2018)
* Bug Fixes
    * If self.default_to_shell is true, then redirection and piping are now properly passed to the shell. Previously it was truncated.
    * Submenus now call all hooks, it used to just call precmd and postcmd.
* Enhancements
    * Automatic completion of ``argparse`` arguments via ``cmd2.argparse_completer.AutoCompleter``
        * See the [tab_autocompletion.py](https://github.com/python-cmd2/cmd2/blob/master/examples/tab_autocompletion.py) example for a demonstration of how to use this feature
    * ``cmd2`` no longer depends on the ``six`` module
    * ``cmd2`` is now a multi-file Python package instead of a single-file module
    * New pyscript approach that provides a pythonic interface to commands in the cmd2 application.
    * Switch command parsing from pyparsing to custom code which utilizes shlex.
        * The object passed to do_* methods has changed. It no longer is the pyparsing object, it's a new Statement object, which is a subclass of ``str``. The statement object has many attributes which give you access to various components of the parsed input. If you were using anything but the string in your do_* methods, this change will require you to update your code.
        * ``commentGrammers`` is no longer supported or available. Comments are C-style or python style.
        * Input redirection no longer supported. Use the load command instead.
        * ``multilineCommand`` attribute is ``now multiline_command``
        * ``identchars`` is now ignored. The standardlibrary cmd uses those characters to split the first "word" of the input, but cmd2 hasn't used those for a while, and the new parsing logic parses on whitespace, which has the added benefit of full unicode support, unlike cmd or prior versions of cmd2.
        * ``set_posix_shlex`` function and ``POSIX_SHLEX`` variable have been removed. Parsing behavior is now always the more forgiving ``posix=false``.
        * ``set_strip_quotes`` function and ``STRIP_QUOTES_FOR_NON_POSIX`` have been removed. Quotes are stripped from arguments when presented as a list (a la ``sys.argv``), and present when arguments are presented as a string (like the string passed to do_*).
* Changes
    * ``strip_ansi()`` and ``strip_quotes()`` functions have moved to new utils module
    * Several constants moved to new constants module
    * Submenu support has been moved to a new [cmd2-submenu](https://github.com/python-cmd2/cmd2-submenu) plugin. If you use submenus, you will need to update your dependencies and modify your imports.
* Deletions (potentially breaking changes)
    * Deleted all ``optparse`` code which had previously been deprecated in release 0.8.0
        * The ``options`` decorator no longer exists
        * All ``cmd2`` code should be ported to use the new ``argparse``-based decorators
        * See the [Argument Processing](http://cmd2.readthedocs.io/en/latest/argument_processing.html) section of the documentation for more information on these decorators
        * Alternatively, see the [argparse_example.py](https://github.com/python-cmd2/cmd2/blob/master/examples/argparse_example.py)
    * Deleted ``cmd_with_subs_completer``, ``get_subcommands``, and ``get_subcommand_completer``
        * Replaced by default AutoCompleter implementation for all commands using argparse
    * Deleted support for old method of calling application commands with ``cmd()`` and ``self``
    * ``cmd2.redirector`` is no longer supported. Output redirection can only be done with '>' or '>>'
    * Deleted ``postparse()`` hook since it was redundant with ``postparsing_precmd``
* Python 2 no longer supported
    * ``cmd2`` now supports Python 3.4+
* Known Issues
    * Some developers have noted very slow performance when importing the ``cmd2`` module. The issue
    it intermittant, and investigation of the root cause is ongoing.

## 0.8.6 (May 27, 2018)
* Bug Fixes
    * Commands using the @with_argparser_and_unknown_args were not correctly recognized when tab completing
    * Fixed issue where completion display function was overwritten when a submenu quits
    * Fixed ``AttributeError`` on Windows when running a ``select`` command cause by **pyreadline** not implementing ``remove_history_item``
* Enhancements
    * Added warning about **libedit** variant of **readline** not being supported on macOS
    * Added tab-completion of alias names in value field of **alias** command
    * Enhanced the ``py`` console in the following ways
        * Added tab completion of Python identifiers instead of **cmd2** commands
        * Separated the ``py`` console history from the **cmd2** history

## 0.8.5 (April 15, 2018)
* Bug Fixes
    * Fixed a bug with all argument decorators where the wrapped function wasn't returning a value and thus couldn't cause the cmd2 app to quit

* Enhancements
    * Added support for verbose help with -v where it lists a brief summary of what each command does
    * Added support for categorizing commands into groups within the help menu
        * See the [Grouping Commands](http://cmd2.readthedocs.io/en/latest/argument_processing.html?highlight=verbose#grouping-commands) section of the docs for more info
        * See [help_categories.py](https://github.com/python-cmd2/cmd2/blob/master/examples/help_categories.py) for an example
    * Tab completion of paths now supports ~user user path expansion
    * Simplified implementation of various tab completion functions so they no longer require ``ctypes``
    * Expanded documentation of ``display_matches`` list to clarify its purpose. See cmd2.py for this documentation.
    * Adding opening quote to tab completion if any of the completion suggestions have a space.

* **Python 2 EOL notice**
    * This is the last release where new features will be added to ``cmd2`` for Python 2.7
    * The 0.9.0 release of ``cmd2`` will support Python 3.4+ only
    * Additional 0.8.x releases may be created to supply bug fixes for Python 2.7 up until August 31, 2018
    * After August 31, 2018 not even bug fixes will be provided for Python 2.7

## 0.8.4 (April 10, 2018)
* Bug Fixes
    * Fixed conditional dependency issue in setup.py that was in 0.8.3.

## 0.8.3 (April 09, 2018)
* Bug Fixes
    * Fixed ``help`` command not calling functions for help topics
    * Fixed not being able to use quoted paths when redirecting with ``<`` and ``>``

* Enhancements
    * Tab completion has been overhauled and now supports completion of strings with quotes and spaces.
    * Tab completion will automatically add an opening quote if a string with a space is completed.
    * Added ``delimiter_complete`` function for tab completing delimited strings
    * Added more control over tab completion behavior including the following flags. The use of these flags is documented in cmd2.py
        * ``allow_appended_space``
        * ``allow_closing_quote``
    * Due to the tab completion changes, non-Windows platforms now depend on [wcwidth](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/wcwidth).
    * An alias name can now match a command name.
    * An alias can now resolve to another alias.

* Attribute Changes (Breaks backward compatibility)
    * ``exclude_from_help`` is now called ``hidden_commands`` since these commands are hidden from things other than help, including tab completion
        * This list also no longer takes the function names of commands (``do_history``), but instead uses the command names themselves (``history``)
    * ``excludeFromHistory`` is now called ``exclude_from_history``
    * ``cmd_with_subs_completer()`` no longer takes an argument called ``base``. Adding tab completion to subcommands has been simplified to declaring it in the
    subcommand parser's default settings. This easily allows arbitrary completers like path_complete to be used.
    See [subcommands.py](https://github.com/python-cmd2/cmd2/blob/master/examples/subcommands.py) for an example of how to use
    tab completion in subcommands. In addition, the docstring for ``cmd_with_subs_completer()`` offers more details.


## 0.8.2 (March 21, 2018)

* Bug Fixes
    * Fixed a bug in tab-completion of command names within sub-menus
    * Fixed a bug when using persistent readline history in Python 2.7
    * Fixed a bug where the ``AddSubmenu`` decorator didn't work with a default value for ``shared_attributes``
    * Added a check to ``ppaged()`` to only use a pager when running in a real fully functional terminal
* Enhancements
    * Added [quit_on_sigint](http://cmd2.readthedocs.io/en/latest/settingchanges.html#quit-on-sigint) attribute to enable canceling current line instead of quitting when Ctrl+C is typed
    * Added possibility of having readline history preservation in a SubMenu
    * Added [table_display.py](https://github.com/python-cmd2/cmd2/blob/master/examples/table_display.py) example to demonstrate how to display tabular data
    * Added command aliasing with ``alias`` and ``unalias`` commands
    * Added the ability to load an initialization script at startup
        * See [alias_startup.py](https://github.com/python-cmd2/cmd2/blob/master/examples/alias_startup.py) for an example
    * Added a default SIGINT handler which terminates any open pipe subprocesses and re-raises a KeyboardInterrupt
    * For macOS, will load the ``gnureadline`` module if available and ``readline`` if not

## 0.8.1 (March 9, 2018)

* Bug Fixes
    * Fixed a bug if a non-existent **do_*** method was added to the ``exclude_from_help`` list
    * Fixed a bug in a unit test which would fail if your home directory was empty on a Linux system
    * Fixed outdated help text for the **edit** command
    * Fixed outdated [remove_unused.py](https://github.com/python-cmd2/cmd2/blob/master/examples/remove_unused.py)
* Enhancements
    * Added support for sub-menus.
        * See [submenus.py](https://github.com/python-cmd2/cmd2/blob/master/examples/submenus.py) for an example of how to use it
    * Added option for persistent readline history
        * See [persistent_history.py](https://github.com/python-cmd2/cmd2/blob/master/examples/persistent_history.py) for an example
        * See the [Searchable command history](http://cmd2.readthedocs.io/en/latest/freefeatures.html#searchable-command-history) section of the documentation for more info
    * Improved PyPI packaging by including unit tests and examples in the tarball
    * Improved documentation to make it more obvious that **poutput()** should be used instead of **print()**
    * ``exclude_from_help`` and ``excludeFromHistory`` are now instance instead of class attributes
    * Added flag and index based tab completion helper functions
        * See [tab_completion.py](https://github.com/python-cmd2/cmd2/blob/master/examples/tab_completion.py)
    * Added support for displaying output which won't fit on the screen via a pager using ``ppaged()``
        * See [paged_output.py](https://github.com/python-cmd2/cmd2/blob/master/examples/paged_output.py)
* Attributes Removed (**can cause breaking changes**)
    * ``abbrev`` - Removed support for abbreviated commands
        * Good tab completion makes this unnecessary and its presence could cause harmful unintended actions
    * ``case_insensitive`` - Removed support for case-insensitive command parsing
        * Its presence wasn't very helpful and could cause harmful unintended actions

## 0.8.0 (February 1, 2018)
* Bug Fixes
    * Fixed unit tests on Python 3.7 due to changes in how re.escape() behaves in Python 3.7
    * Fixed a bug where unknown commands were getting saved in the history
* Enhancements
    * Three new decorators for **do_*** commands to make argument parsing easier
        * **with_argument_list** decorator to change argument type from str to List[str]
            * **do_*** commands get a single argument which is a list of strings, as pre-parsed by shlex.split()
        * **with_arparser** decorator for strict argparse-based argument parsing of command arguments
            * **do_*** commands get a single argument which is the output of argparse.parse_args()
        * **with_argparser_and_unknown_args** decorator for argparse-based argument parsing, but allows unknown args
            * **do_*** commands get two arguments, the output of argparse.parse_known_args()
    *  See the [Argument Processing](http://cmd2.readthedocs.io/en/latest/argument_processing.html) section of the documentation for more information on these decorators
        * Alternatively, see the [argparse_example.py](https://github.com/python-cmd2/cmd2/blob/master/examples/argparse_example.py)
        and [arg_print.py](https://github.com/python-cmd2/cmd2/blob/master/examples/arg_print.py) examples
    * Added support for Argparse sub-commands when using the **with_argument_parser** or **with_argparser_and_unknown_args** decorators
        * See [subcommands.py](https://github.com/python-cmd2/cmd2/blob/master/examples/subcommands.py) for an example of how to use subcommands
        * Tab-completion of sub-command names is automatically supported
    * The **__relative_load** command is now hidden from the help menu by default
        * This command is not intended to be called from the command line, only from within scripts
    * The **set** command now has an additional **-a/--all** option to also display read-only settings
    * The **history** command can now run, edit, and save prior commands, in addition to displaying prior commands.
    * The **history** command can now automatically generate a transcript file for regression testing
        * This makes creating regression tests for your ``cmd2`` application trivial
* Commands Removed
    * The **cmdenvironment** has been removed and its functionality incorporated into the **-a/--all** argument to **set**
    * The **show** command has been removed.  Its functionality has always existing within **set** and continues to do so
    * The **save** command has been removed. The capability to save commands is now part of the **history** command.
    * The **run** command has been removed. The capability to run prior commands is now part of the **history** command.
* Other changes
    * The **edit** command no longer allows you to edit prior commands. The capability to edit prior commands is now part of the **history** command. The **edit** command still allows you to edit arbitrary files.
    * the **autorun_on_edit** setting has been removed.
    * For Python 3.4 and earlier, ``cmd2`` now has an additional dependency on the ``contextlib2`` module
* Deprecations
    * The old **options** decorator for optparse-based argument parsing is now *deprecated*
        * The old decorator is still present for now, but will be removed in a future release
        * ``cmd2`` no longer includes **optparse.make_option**, so if your app needs it import directly from optparse

## 0.7.9 (January 4, 2018)

* Bug Fixes
    * Fixed a couple broken examples
* Enhancements
    * Improved documentation for modifying shortcuts (command aliases)
    * Made ``pyreadline`` a dependency on Windows to ensure tab-completion works
* Other changes
    * Abandoned official support for Python 3.3.  It should still work, just don't have an easy way to test it anymore.

## 0.7.8 (November 8, 2017)

* Bug Fixes
    * Fixed ``poutput()`` so it can print an integer zero and other **falsy** things
    * Fixed a bug which was causing autodoc to fail for building docs on Readthedocs
    * Fixed bug due to ``pyperclip`` dependency radically changing its project structure in latest version
* Enhancements
    * Improved documentation for user-settable environment parameters
    * Improved documentation for overriding the default supported comment styles
    * Added ``runcmds_plus_hooks()`` method to run multiple commands w/o a cmdloop

## 0.7.7 (August 25, 2017)

* Bug Fixes
    * Added workaround for bug which occurs in Python 2.7 on Linux when ``pygtk`` is installed
    * ``pfeedback()`` now honors feedback_to_output setting and won't redirect when it is ``False``
    * For ``edit`` command, both **editor** and **filename** can now have spaces in the name/path
    * Fixed a bug which occurred when stdin was a pipe instead of a tty due to input redirection
* Enhancements
    * ``feedback_to_output`` now defaults to ``False`` so info like command timing won't redirect
    * Transcript regular expressions now have predictable, tested, and documented behavior
        * This makes a breaking change to the format and expectations of transcript testing
        * The prior behavior removed whitespace before making the comparison, now whitespace must match exactly
        * Prior version did not allow regexes with whitespace, new version allows any regex
    * Improved display for ``load`` command and input redirection when **echo** is ``True``

## 0.7.6 (August 11, 2017)

* Bug Fixes
    * Case-sensitive command parsing was completely broken and has been fixed
    * ``<Ctrl>+d`` now properly quits when case-sensitive command parsing is enabled
    * Fixed some pyperclip clipboard interaction bugs on Linux
    * Fixed some timing bugs when running unit tests in parallel by using monkeypatch
* Enhancements
    * Enhanced tab-completion of cmd2 command names to support case-insensitive completion
    * Added an example showing how to remove unused commands
    * Improved how transcript testing handles prompts with ANSI escape codes by stripping them
    * Greatly improved implementation for how command output gets piped to a shell command

## 0.7.5 (July 8, 2017)

* Bug Fixes
    * `case_insensitive` is no longer a runtime-settable parameter, but it was still listed as such
    * Fixed a recursive loop bug when abbreviated commands are enabled and it could get stuck in the editor forever
        * Added additional command abbreviations to the "exclude from history" list
    * Fixed argparse_example.py and pirate.py examples and transcript_regex.txt transcript
    * Fixed a bug in a unit test which occurred under unusual circumstances
* Enhancements
    * Organized all attributes used to configure the ParserManager into a single location
    * Set the default value of `abbrev` to `False` (which controls whether or not abbreviated commands are allowed)
        * With good tab-completion of command names, using abbreviated commands isn't particularly useful
        * And it can create complications if you are't careful
    * Improved implementation of `load` to use command queue instead of nested inner loop

## 0.7.4 (July 3, 2017)

* Bug fixes
    * Fixed a couple bugs in interacting with pastebuffer/clipboard on macOS and Linux
    * Fixed a couple bugs in edit and save commands if called when history is empty
    * Ability to pipe ``cmd2`` command output to a shell command is now more reliable, particularly on Windows
    * Fixed a bug in ``pyscript`` command on Windows related to ``\`` being interpreted as an escape
* Enhancements
    * Ensure that path and shell command tab-completion results are alphabetically sorted
    * Removed feature for load command to load scripts from URLS
        * It didn't work, there were no unit tests, and it felt out of place
    * Removed presence of a default file name and default file extension
        * These also strongly felt out of place
        * ``load`` and ``_relative_load`` now require a file path
        * ``edit`` and ``save`` now use a temporary file if a file path isn't provided
    * ``load`` command has better error checking and reporting
    * Clipboard copy and paste functionality is now handled by the **pyperclip** module
    * ``shell`` command now supports redirection and piping of output
    * Added a lot of unit tests
* Other changes
    * Removed pause command
    * Added a dependency on the **pyperclip** module

## 0.7.3 (June 23, 2017)

* Bug fixes
    * Fixed a bug in displaying a span of history items when only an end index is supplied
    * Fixed a bug which caused transcript test failures to display twice
* Enhancements
    * Added the ability to exclude commands from the help menu (**eof** included by default)
    * Redundant **list** command removed and features merged into **history** command
    * Added **pyscript** command which supports tab-completion and running Python scripts with arguments
    * Improved tab-completion of file system paths, command names, and shell commands
        * Thanks to Kevin Van Brunt for all of the help with debugging and testing this
    * Changed default value of USE_ARG_LIST to True - this affects the beavhior of all **@options** commands
        * **WARNING**: This breaks backwards compatibility, to restore backwards compatibility, add this to the
          **__init__()** method in your custom class derived from cmd2.Cmd:
            * cmd2.set_use_arg_list(False)
        * This change improves argument parsing for all new applications
    * Refactored code to encapsulate most of the pyparsing logic into a ParserManager class

## 0.7.2 (May 22, 2017)

* Added a MANIFEST.ini file to make sure a few extra files get included in the PyPI source distribution

## 0.7.1 (May 22, 2017)

* Bug fixes
    * ``-`` wasn't being treated as a legal character
    * The allow_cli_args attribute wasn't properly disabling parsing of args at invocation when False
    * py command wasn't allowing scripts which used *cmd* function prior to entering an interactive Python session
    * Don't throw exception when piping output to a shell command
    * Transcript testing now properly calls ``preloop`` before and ``postloop`` after
    * Fixed readline bug related to ANSI color escape codes in the prompt
* Added CONTRIBUTING.md and CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md files
* Added unicode parsing unit tests and listed unicode support as a feature when using Python 3
* Added more examples and improved documentation
    * Example for how use cmd2 in a way where it doesn't own the main loop so it can integrate with external event loops
    * Example for how to use argparse for parsing command-line args at invocation
    * Example for how to use the **py** command to run Python scripts which use conditional control flow
    * Example of how to use regular expressions in a transcript test
* Added CmdResult namedtumple for returning and storing results
* Added local file system path completion for ``edit``, ``load``, ``save``, and ``shell`` commands
* Add shell command completion for ``shell`` command or ``!`` shortcut
* Abbreviated multiline commands are no longer allowed (they never worked correctly anyways)

## 0.7.0 (February 23, 2017)

* Refactored to use six module for a unified codebase which supports both Python 2 and Python 3
* Stabilized on all platforms (Windows, Mac, Linux) and all supported Python versions (2.7, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, PyPy)
* Added lots of unit tests and fixed a number of bugs
* Improved documentation and moved it to cmd2.readthedocs.io


## 0.6.9 (October 3, 2016)

* Support Python 3 input()
* Fix subprocess.mswindows bug
* Add Python3.6 support
* Drop distutils from setup.py


## 0.6.8 (December 9, 2014)

* better editor checking (by Ian Cordascu)


## 0.6.6.1 (August 14, 2013)

* No changes to code trunk.  Generated sdist from Python 2.7 to avoid 2to3 changes being applied to source.  (Issue https://bitbucket.org/catherinedevlin/cmd2/issue/6/packaging-bug)


## 0.6.6 (August 6, 2013)

* Added fix by bitbucket.org/desaintmartin to silence the editor check.  bitbucket.org/catherinedevlin/cmd2/issue/1/silent-editor-check


## 0.6.5.1 (March 18, 2013)

* Bugfix for setup.py version check for Python 2.6, contributed by Tomaz Muraus (https://bitbucket.org/kami)


## 0.6.5 (February 29, 2013)

* Belatedly began a NEWS.txt
* Changed pyparsing requirement for compatibility with Python version (2 vs 3)
